# SchoolBot API v0

The SchoolBot web app exposes an HTTP API, using [JSON](http://json.org/) for
data transfer, which school districts can use to push de-identified student bus
assignment data. This document describes the API contract and technical details.

The current and only version of the API is v0. Any changes made to this version
will remain backward-compatible with the original specification. Incompatible
changes will only be introduced in new versions, unless such changes are
required to close a security vulnerability.

Cases where the observed behavior of the API differs from this documentation
should be [reported][issues] as bugs. This includes deviations from the
versioning policy described above.

[issues]: https://github.com/Vermonster/schoolbot/issues


## Authentication

Each school district is assigned a randomly generated 32-character **API key**.
Authentication is handled using [HTTP basic auth][httpbasic], with the API key
as the "password", and the assigned district subdomain as the "username". For
instance, if your district's SchoolBot URL was
`https://springfield.schoolbot.io`, then your username would be `springfield`.

[httpbasic]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication


## Endpoints

The current version of the API has two endpoints:

* `POST https://schoolbot.io/api/v0/assignments` – For sending bus assignments
* `GET https://schoolbot.io/api/v0/assignments/<id>` – For verifying assignments

These URLs are valid for the hosted schoolbot.io service. If you are hosting
your own installation of SchoolBot, the domain will be different, but the paths
remain the same.


## `POST /assignments`

This is the primary API endpoint, used to upload student bus assignments. The
data must be in JSON format, and must use the data structure outlined:

```json
{
  "assignments": [
    {
      "sha": "<digest>",
      "bus_identifier": "<identifier>"
    },
    {
      "sha": "<digest>",
      "bus_identifier": "<identifier>"
    }
  ]
}
```

The `<digest>` is the SHA-256 hex digest of a student, using the algorithm
described below. The `<identifier>` is the identifier ("asset number" in Zonar)
of the bus the student is assigned to.

### Student De-identification

The `"sha"` property of a bus assignment record is derived from three pieces of
student data:

* The student's ID number, lower-cased
* The student's last name, lower-cased
* The student's birth date, in ISO8601 format (zero-padded YYYY-MM-DD)

These are concatenated in order, separated by colons (`:`). Then the SHA-256
digest of this string is calculated, and expressed in hexadecimal ("hex") form.

Example: For a student named "**Susan Smith**" with a student ID of "**A00123**"
and a birth date of **March 12th, 2009**, the input to the SHA-256 would be:

`a00123:smith:2009-03-12`

The resulting hex digest would be:

`e363bddf5f10ddd7ac4f1ffb435c2e72ac0b1123dec9775828c036ee793b5136`

### Assignment Update Semantics

Each call to this endpoint is assumed to contain *all known bus assignments*. If
a student digest that SchoolBot has seen before is not present in a given
update, that student's bus assignment will be removed. This does not remove the
student from a parent or guardian's account, but the student will display as
"unassigned". Students can be explicitly unassigned by including them in the
data with a bus identifier of `null` (a literal JSON null, not the string
`"null"`).

### HTTP Response Codes

This API endpoint never returns data in the response body. The following status
codes are used:

* **401 Unauthorized** – Incorrect or missing username/password.
* **422 Unprocessable Entity** – The data did not match the expected format.
* **202 Accepted** – Data was accepted for processing. Processing is offloaded
  to a background task and could take several minutes, depending on the volume
  of data.

### Notes

Barring a server failure or a bug in the import code, data is guaranteed to be
processed if it is accepted. Records with null, blank, or duplicate `sha` values
will not prevent other records from being processed, but they are also not
guaranteed to be handled in any particular way. For best results, ensure your
data does not contain such records.

For most school districts, we expect that uploading data every 60 minutes would
be sufficient to account for during-the-day or overnight bus assignment changes.
Currently there is no rate limit, but to avoid excessive server load, we
recommend not exceeding one call per 15 minutes.


## `GET /assignments/<id>`

This is a convenience endpoint that can be used to verify individual student bus
assignments. `<id>` should be replaced with the SHA-256 hex digest of a student
(see above). No other data or parameters are required. The response data is in
JSON format and has this structure:

```json
{
  "assignment": [
    {
      "sha": "<digest>",
      "bus_identifier": "<identifier>"
    }
  ]
}
```

### HTTP Response Codes

The following status codes are used:

* **401 Unauthorized** – Incorrect or missing username/password.
* **404 Not Found** – The provided student digest was not found in the database.
* **200 OK** – The provided student digest was found. The student's current bus
  assignment can be found in the response data (see above).

### Notes

Keep in mind that assignment uploads are processed asynchronously, and new
assignments will only appear in the database once the background task is
completely finished, which may take several minutes. If you call the `POST
/assignments` endpoint, and then immediately call this endpoint, the data you
receive will likely not reflect the upload you just made.
